---
idxx: 2
title: "[译] [XXX] XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
---


## 2.4 **Addressing common Copilot challenges**

It may seem early in your experience with Copilot to start talking about common challenges with Copilot, but you may have already run into this when writing your first program and you’ll certainly encounter some of these working through our next example and in the next chapter, so we wanted to give these to you now.

In our time working with Copilot, we’ve run into a few common challenges. These challenges will likely decrease with time as Copilot improves, but they were still issues at the time of writing. Although the challenges in table 2.1 are not exhaustive of what you might encounter, we hope our tips on how to address these common challenges will help you get up and running quickly. We’ll keep a running list at our book’s website so please feel free to reach out to us on the forums if you feel we’ve missed something!

**Table 2.1 Common Challenges working with Copilot**

  

Challenge

Description

Remedies

1\. Add a newline (Enter) between your comment and Copilot’s suggestion to help it switch from comments to code.

If you give Copilot a prompt using the comment symbol (#), when you start a new line, it wants to just give you more comments rather than code. For example:

2\. If a newline doesn’t work, you can type a letter or two of code (no comment symbol). A couple letters from a keyword in your prompt usually works. For example:

**# output "Hello Copilot" to the screen**

Comments only

**# output "Hello Copilot" to the screen**

# print “Hello world to the screen

We've seen Copilot generate line after line of comments, sometimes repeating itself! When this happens, suggestion #3 (use docstrings) is sometimes the most effective.

pr

A couple letters from a keyword typically causes Copilot to give a code suggestion

3. Switch from using \# comments to docstring comments like this:

_"""_

_output_ _"Hello_ _Copilot" to the screen_

  

_"""_

4. Use <Ctrl>+Enter to see if Copilot will give you suggestions that are code rather than comments

**Table 2.1 Common Challenges working with Copilot (continued)**

Challenge

Description

Remedies

Much of this book is about how to address this issue, but here are some quick tips to get Copilot to help.

1. Change your prompt to see if you can describe what you need better.

Wrong Code

Sometimes Copilot just gives you obviously wrong code from the start. (You’ll learn throughout this book how to identify incorrect code!)

In addition, sometimes Copilot seems to get stuck down wrong paths. For example, it might seem to be trying to solve a different problem than

2. Try using <Ctrl> + Enter to find a suggestion from Copilot that is the correct code.

3. Close the VSCode program, wait a little bit, and restart it. This can help clear the Copilot cache to get new suggestions.

4. Try breaking down the problem into smaller steps

  

what you’ve asked it to solve. (Suggestion 3, in particular, can help with getting Copilot to go down a new path.)

(see Chapter 7 for more details).

5. Debug the code (see Chapter 8).

6. Try asking ChatGPT for the code and feed its suggestions into VSCode. A different LLM can sometimes give suggestions that help the other LLM to get unstuck.

**Table 2.1 Common Challenges working with Copilot (continued)**

Challenge

Description

Remedies

Copilot gives you:

We’ve had Copilot seem to tell us to write our own code by generating

We believe this is happening when we ask Copilot to solve a problem that has been given by an instructor to students to solve in the past. Why?

Well, when we write our assignments for our students, we (as instructors) often write some code and then tell our students to write the rest by writing:

# YOUR CODE HERE

  

# YOUR CODE HERE

this (or similar text) after a prompt:

# YOUR CODE HERE

Where we want students to write their code.

Students tend to leave that comment in their solution code which means Copilot was trained to think this comment is an important part of the solution (it’s not). Often, we’re able to solve this problem by finding reasonable solutions in the Copilot suggestions with

<CTRL>+Enter, but please see the solutions for Wrong Code if that doesn’t work.

Missing Modules

Copilot gives you code, but it won’t work because there are modules missing. (Modules are additional libraries that can be added to Python to give pre-built functionality.)

See Section 2.5, under “Modules” for how to install new modules on your machine.
