---
id: 
title: "[译] [XXX] XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
---


## 4.1 Why we need to read code

When we talk about reading code, what we mean is being able to understand what code does by looking at it. There are two such levels of understanding.

The first is being able to understand, line by line, what a program will do. This often involves tracing the values of variables as the code runs in order to determine exactly what the code is doing at each step.

The second is being able to determine the overall purpose of a program. As professors, we often test students at this level with questions that ask them to "explain in plain English."

At the end of these two chapters, we’ll want you to be able to do both at the level of being able to interpret the code produced by Copilot. We’ll start focusing on that line-by-line understanding but toward the end, you’ll start being able to look at a small chunk of code and determine its purpose.

We can illustrate the difference between these two levels of reading code by referring back to our `best_word` function from Chapter 3, reprinted in the following listing.

> Listing 4.1 Best Word function for Scrabble, reprinted from Chapter 3

```python
def best_word(word_list):
    """
word_list is a list of words.

Return the word worth the most points.
"""
    best_word = ""
    best_points = 0
    for word in word_list:
        points = num_points(word)
        if points > best_points:
            best_word = word
            best_points = points
    return best_word
```

A **tracing description** of what this program does would be a description of each line. For example, we would say that we're defining a function called `best_word`. We have a variable called `best_word` that we start off as a string with no characters, otherwise known as the empty string. (It’s unfortunate that the function and this variable are both called `best_word`, because it makes it trickier to refer to one or the other, but that’s what Copilot gave us.) We also have another variable `best_points` that we start at 0. Then we have a for loop over each word in the `word_list`. Inside the for loop, we call our `num_points` helper function... and so on. (We’ll be explaining how we know what each line of code does over the next two chapters!).

In contrast, a **description of the overall purpose** would be something like our docstring description: “Return the word with the highest Scrabble point value from a list of words.” Rather than refer to each line, this description refers to the code’s purpose as a whole, explaining what it does at a high level.

You'll come to an overall-purpose level of understanding through a combination of practice with tracing and testing, and we hope you arrive there in full glory by the end of the book. Working at a tracing level generally precedes the ability to work at an overall-purpose level [1], so in this chapter and the next, we're going to focus on the tracing level by understanding what each line of code does.

There are three reasons why we want you to be able to read code.

1. **Helping to determine whether code is correct.** In Chapter 3, we practiced how to test the code that Copilot gives us. Testing is a powerful skill for determining whether code does the right thing, and we will continue to use it throughout the book. But many programmers, the two of us included, will only test something if it seems plausibly correct. If we can determine by inspection that the code is wrong, then we won't bother to test it: we'll try to get the code fixed first. Similarly, we want you to be able to identify when code is simply wrong, without having to spend time testing it. The more code that you can identify as wrong (through quick tracing or honing your overall-purpose skills), the more time you save testing broken code.

2. **Informing testing.** Understanding what the code is doing line by line is useful on its own, but it also helps turbocharge your ability to effectively test. For example, in the next chapter, you'll learn about loops; that they can cause your code to repeat zero times, one time, two times, or as many times as needed. You'll be able to combine that knowledge with what you already know about testing to help you identify important categories of cases to test.

3. **Helping you write code.** We know—you want Copilot to write all of your code! We want that, too. But inevitably, there will be code that Copilot just doesn't get right, no matter how much prompt engineering you do. Or maybe enough prompt engineering could finally cajole Copilot to write the correct code, but it would be simpler and faster to just do it ourselves. In writing this book, the two of us strive to have Copilot write as much code as possible. But, because of our knowledge of Python programming, we are often able to see a mistake and just fix it without going through any hoops to have Copilot fix it for us. More long-term, we want you to be empowered to learn more programming on your own, and having an understanding of Python is our way to bridge you from this book to other resources later. There is research evidence that being able to trace and explain code is prerequisite to being able to write code [1].

Before we get to it, we need to be clear about the level of depth that we're striving for. We're not going to teach you every nuance of every line of code. Doing so would revert us back to the traditional way that programming was taught prior to tools like Copilot. Rather, through a combination of Copilot tools and our own explanations, we're going to help you understand the gist or overall goal of each line of code. You will need more than this if you endeavor to write large portions of programs in the future. We are trying to target the sweet spot between "this code is magic" and "I know exactly how every line of the code works."
